Chapter number four, good to have the Beals family
with us again this evening.
And they're stopping in to visit with Matt,
make sure he's still doing all that he's supposed to do.
And we got to meet Lydia's parents not long ago.
And now we get to meet Matt's parents
and brother and sister.
And his sister, Holly,
is going to finish her senior year of college.
And so they're heading down to South Carolina from here.
And so if you'd pray for their travels,
I know they'd appreciate that.
Second Kings chapter four,
we'll be looking at verses one through seven.
Admittedly, at the beginning of this message,
we'll note that this is a familiar passage of scripture.
I trust it'll be a blessing to you
as we consider the content here.
Of course, with it being a familiar passage of scripture,
the danger sometimes in our lives
is that we can say, oh yeah, I know that.
I've heard that, I know what happens.
And we just kind of put it on autopilot, so to speak.
And I'm not sure, I have not kept count.
At some points, I wish that I had kept record
of how many times I've read the Bible cover to cover.
But I know that for a number of years,
it's been at least two times per year.
Last year, I read the Bible cover to cover twice.
And in the New Testament, two more times on top of that.
This year, I'm on track to read it through three times.
And I try very hard to keep it fresh in my life
and come to that place where,
yes, I've read the Bible cover to cover,
but this book is like no other book.
There are a lot of books that I've read
that I've never read a second time.
Amen?
You have some like that?
You had some that you had to read in college
that was mandatory reading, and you read it,
and you labored through it, and you said,
I will never read this book again.
I can't wait to get to the end.
Amen?
Dean's waving his hand.
He's like, amen.
There's some books that you've read
that you say, man, that's a good book.
I'll read that again.
There's a few books that I have in my library
that I've read more than once.
But this book is a living book.
And it's the word of God.
And I try in my own life personally,
I try through the preaching ministry
to keep it fresh and keep it applicable in our lives.
And trust me, a blessing to you this evening.
Hudson Taylor, missionary to China.
Many of you are familiar with that name.
He is given credit for making this statement.
God's work done God's way will never lack God's supply.
What a great truth that he understood in his own life.
In fact, if you were to read the story of Hudson Taylor
and there's a number of really neat nuggets
as you would read his life account,
many books that are written with regard
to some of his ministry, of course,
serving there in China and all that God did.
But how God increased his faith
in one particular incident early in his life,
he was working for a medical doctor
and he had to regularly remind the doctor for his pay.
And could you imagine if every week
you had to go remind your boss that it was payday?
And it just got to the point in Hudson Taylor's life
that he decided that in order to increase his faith,
he would stop asking his boss for his pay
because he knew that God could remind his boss
that he was to be paid.
And so he said, I'm not gonna ask anymore.
And God worked and God blessed.
It was something just little that God used in his life
to increase his faith.
And as of course, he would go to China many years later
and face a whole number of obstacles,
he knew that God was able.
And he knew that God would take care of him.
He knew that God would provide for him.
And his greatest desire, as I understand,
and as I've done some reading about his life
was that he would do God's work God's way.
And believing and trusting that God would provide.
And as we look at this particular portion of Scripture,
we would be reminded that of course,
this widow woman cries unto Elisha
and of course, being an Old Testament account.
But I look at this account,
I look at the life of Hudson Taylor
and I consider our own lives this evening.
And I am reminded of this great truth
that we serve the same God.
Amen, we serve the same God.
In fact, our bulletin this morning, this evening for today,
it reminds us the truth of Hebrews 13, eight,
Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and today and forever.
God says in Malachi, I am the Lord, I change not.
I'm so thankful for the immutability of the Lord.
And we find that we serve the same God
and he is able to do exceeding abundantly
above all that we ask or think, amen.
And notice in the passage of Scriptures,
we briefly examined this familiar text.
I really wanna note three things.
And I told Brianna, she said,
you had four Ps this morning.
I said, we're gonna stick with Ps this evening as well.
There's gonna be a problem, a plan and another principle.
And so I want you to notice as we read here
in verse number one, the Bible says,
now there cried a certain woman
of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha,
saying, thy servant, my husband, is dead.
And thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord.
Notice, and the creditor is come to take unto him
my two sons to be bondmen.
And Elisha said unto her, what shall I do for thee?
Tell me, what hast thou in the house?
And she said, thine handmaid hath not anything in the house
save a pot of oil.
In verse number seven, we'll read all the texts
as we go through the message this evening.
The Bible says, then she came and told the man of God.
And he said, go sell the oil and pay thy debt
and live thou and thy children of the rest.
Elisha says, what is it that you have in the house?
And she says, thine handmaid hath not anything in the house
save a pot of oil.
The reality is that she understood,
even through her communication with Elisha,
that what she had was not sufficient
to take care of her problem.
But God, but God.
If you're taking notes,
I've titled the message this evening,
The Provision of the Lord, The Provision of the Lord.
I want you to note the problem.
It's revealed to us in verse number one.
We find that here, as this woman comes to Elisha,
we understand that Elisha has been now in this position
of being this prophet of God and he has been used of God.
And we have the opportunity to read here
how that this woman now comes to this prophet,
this servant of the Lord, Elisha.
And notice that the Bible says,
thy servant, my husband, is dead.
Now, he was of the sons of the prophets.
We know that he was a servant of the Lord
that feared the Lord.
And we find here that he's now dead,
but there was a debt that they had.
There was a debt that they had.
And in 2 Kings 4, in verse number one,
the problem of this woman is revealed to Elisha.
And the problem, the husband is dead,
but notice that as the creditor comes,
the Bible tells us that the creditor has come
to take unto him my two sons to be bondmen.
Now, I want you to notice the way
in which she approached the man of God.
The Bible says, now there cried a certain woman
of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha.
I believe that in her life,
this problem was as serious as any problem
that you have in your life.
Sometimes we can look at the problems of others
and say, well, that's not really that big of a deal.
Well, it's not your problem, it's their problem,
and to them, it's a big deal.
Amen?
And we ought to be thankful
that their problem isn't our problem,
and our problem isn't their problem,
because God gave you your problem for you.
Amen?
Seriously.
Because God could take care of all of our problems
if He so desired to.
But you know, there are times in which
He will give us trials and tribulations
and troubles and problems to develop us.
You've often heard me say over the years
that God is able to deliver us,
but oftentimes we find that He would choose
to develop us through the trial.
The reality is that there are times
in which we face the trial, we face the problem,
and we don't so much like the development process, right?
We just want the deliverance.
I'd be happy, Lord, if you'd just take care of this problem,
if I didn't have to endure this situation,
if I didn't have to deal with this,
I don't have time for it, I don't have money for it,
I don't have, fill in the blank, right?
Whatever your problem is.
Someone said, I think wisely said,
if everyone in a room, doesn't matter the size of the room,
if we took everyone in the room this evening,
I'm not sure how many of us are here tonight,
but if we took every one of us,
and we had a board up here, and we gave you a sticky note,
and we said, write your problem,
the biggest problem that you have,
on that sticky note, and put it up on the board,
and then everybody go sit down,
and then you can pick a problem that you want off the board,
you'd probably go pick your own problem.
Why, because I don't want your problem,
and you don't want my problem.
But this problem that this woman had was serious.
She cried, the Bible says that there cried a certain woman
of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha,
she says, my husband's dead, but we had a debt,
and the creditors are come, and now these creditors,
they're going to come and take away my two sons,
to be bondmen.
How was it that this debt would be satisfied?
It would be through the sons becoming bondmen.
That's a serious problem.
Can you imagine the heartache of a wife losing her husband,
and then as a mother, understanding that now
she's gonna lose her children?
I mean, can you put yourself in her situation
just for a moment?
I can't quite fully understand.
didn't grasp the extent of her problem as it's revealed to us here, and quite frankly
it's one verse of Scripture, but yet we find the depth of the problem in which she faced.
I'm thankful that I've never had to endure a problem such as this.
In just a few weeks, Lord willing, Holly and I will celebrate our 20th wedding anniversary.
As you know, we celebrate it today, and very thankful for your kind words, 10 years here
as pastor, and it's kind of exciting.
We now have pastored for half of our time of being married in this place, and that's
a wonderful blessing.
We're very thankful for it.
But I'm thankful that I've not had to experience the death of a spouse.
Some have, and some can understand the heartache and the difficulty of that situation.
She's lost her husband, but now it's very likely, it's very real in her life, that because
of this debt, the creditors have said, here's how we're going to solve this.
Your two sons are going to become our bondmen.
There's a problem.
The problem's revealed to us in verse number one.
We'll get to it at the end of the message, but you'll find that the problem is resolved
in verse number seven.
I'm thankful for resolved problems, aren't you?
The reality is that we can look at our lives and we can say, we've encountered some storms
and we have faced some trials and we've dealt with some difficulties and we've had some
problems, but God has been faithful, and God has worked on our behalf, and God has shown
up and worked miraculously, and God has given wisdom, and God has provided, and God has
answered, and God has been God.
I'm thankful for resolved problems.
I've often said, in the world, there are a lot of problem identifiers, but there are
few problem solvers.
The more time you spend in any role of leadership, the more you find that statement to be true.
But the reality is that I'm thankful that our God is able to solve problems.
Amen?
I mean, you say, I've got a problem.
Well, God's able.
It doesn't matter what your problem is, but pastor, you don't understand the extent of
my problem.
It's okay because I'm not the one that's going to be able to solve your problem.
Amen?
But God can.
God can.
Elisha, in of himself, was not going to be able to solve the problem of this woman.
It was not within Elisha's power.
It was not within, listen, Elisha didn't just say, pull out his billfold and say, okay,
how much is the debt?
Okay, here you go.
Here's the money.
Go take care of it.
That's not what he does.
Right?
So we find the problem.
It's revealed.
We'll know as we end the message this evening that it's resolved in verse number seven.
But notice with me, not only the problem, but then right in the middle of our text,
there's the plan.
The plan.
Elisha said unto her, in verse number two, what shall I do for thee?
Tell me what hast thou in the house.
She said, thine handmaid hath not anything in the house, save a pot of oil.
In verses two through four, we'll see that the plan is explained.
We'll find that here, Elisha is going to explain this plan to this woman that is dealing with
this problem that has now been given to Elisha.
He says, what shall I do for thee?
I think that if he stopped there for any length of time, that she would interject and say,
solve my problem.
I mean, why I came to you for this reason, right?
And he says, what shall I do for thee?
And he then says this, what hast thou in thine house, in the house?
And she said, all I have is a pot of oil.
He said this in verse number three, go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors,
even empty vessels, borrow not a few.
Does that confuse you?
I mean, I understand we know the end of the story, but be in the position of this woman
for a moment.
You go to Elisha, you're crying to the man of God, you've explained to him your problem,
it's been revealed to him.
He's now said to you, what do you want me to do for you?
What do you have in the house?
And she says, all I have is a pot of oil.
He says, okay, here's the plan.
He's going to explain the plan.
He says, I want you to go, and I want you to borrow vessels, and I want you to go abroad
of all thy neighbors, and I want you to get empty vessels, and he ends it with this statement,
borrow not a few.
I like the details.
If I could be honest and transparent with you this evening, if I were in these shoes,
and I've tried to do that as I study the scriptures, put myself into the accounts, I'd probably
go out and just borrow a couple.
Why am I doing this?
It seems to be pointless.
It seems to not have any regard to what I'm really dealing with.
I mean, my problem is that my husband's dead.
My problem is that my boys are going to become creditors.
That's what this woman is facing in a problem.
And the man of God says, go borrow some empty vessels.
Borrow not a few.
Then he says this, he continues to explain the plan in verse number four.
It says this, and when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon
thy sons.
And notice what it says, and shalt pour out into all those vessels, and thou shalt set
aside that which is full.
So you have this pot of oil.
You've told me.
I've asked, what do you have in the house?
I have nothing.
So he gave a pot of oil, and he says, okay, go borrow vessels.
Borrow not a few.
And when you come back with all of those vessels, then I want you to shut the door.
You and your sons will be in the house, and I want you to take that vessel that you have,
and I want you to pour out into all of these vessels that you've borrowed.
And then when those vessels are full, then set those aside.
Now, if you're a kind of an individual that likes to analyze things, and sometimes we
can have the paralysis of analysis, and we've talked about some of that, and you're just
kind of practical, you say, look, I know that that pot of oil that I have is not going to
fill up any number of empty vessels, right?
Human reasoning sometimes begins to prevail in the circumstances, begin to face our problems,
and we seek the face of God, and we say we have a problem, and we're looking for God's
Word to God's Word, and we're looking for God to provide us with answers, and God's
Word has the answers, and we go to the Word of God, and we say, well, there's no way that
that can make sense.
There's no way that that's going to work.
His ways are not our ways.
He says, lean not on thine own understanding in all thy ways, right?
Trust in the Lord, how?
In all thine heart, verse number five, and then he tells us that we're to lean not on
our own understanding, in all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy paths.
Do you think that this woman knew the size of the pot that she had at home?
Sure she did.
You know as the individual that maybe if I would look at it as our home, Holly knows
the vessels that we have in our kitchen, right?
And I could say to Holly, what do we have?
And she knows the items that we have, and if she said she had a pot of oil, she'd know
about the size of the pot of oil.
It's mindful of what we find back in 1 Kings chapter 17 with the widow woman at Zarephath,
and you think about the situation with the meal and Elisha, and she says, look, we're
going to go eat this meal, and we're going to die.
We've got nothing left, and Elijah said, that's fine, but make for me first, right?
I mean, read 1 Kings 17.
This woman knew the size of the pot that she had.
The plan was explained.
We find that the plan is then executed.
I'm thankful for the obedience of this woman and her sons.
Now, the Bible tells us that she went from him in verse number 5, and shut the door unto
her and upon her sons, who brought the vessels to her, and she poured out.
Now, it's only one verse of Scripture, verse number 5, but can you imagine the excitement
that must have taken place in that one verse of Scripture?
I don't know the duration of verse number 5.
I don't know how long it took, but I know that the Bible says that she was given the
instruction of borrow not a few, and we find that it says when it came to pass in verse
number 6 that when the vessels were full, that she said unto her son, bring me yet a
vessel, and he said unto her, there is not a vessel more.
I mean, we borrowed every vessel we could find.
We went to everyone, and the man of God said, borrow not a few, and we just brought everything
we could get.
And again, I don't know how long the process took, but can you imagine as mom is there
with these two boys, and they have all of these pots, and I hope in your sanctified
imagination this evening that you can see a vessel, a pot of oil, and you can see all
of these empty pots, and she says to her son, bring that one over, and she pours it out
and fills it up, and perhaps that vessel was bigger than even the vessel that she started
with, and she says, okay, bring another one, and they bring another one, and I mean, can
you imagine the excitement?
How can this be?
Right?
But God, the provision of the Lord.
I mean, every vessel is full.
Boys, I need you to go get more.
But there are no more.
There are no more vessels for us to get.
And the Bible ends in verse number 6 and says,
And the oil stayed, and the oil stayed.
It wasted not.
And I don't know, the Scriptures do not tell us
how many vessels were borrowed.
The Bible doesn't tell us how many vessels were filled,
but the Bible, what it does tell us
is that all of them that were brought were full.
Miraculous.
Isn't that something that you'd like to see happen?
I mean, just see God work in a way in which
it can only be explained that God did it.
I don't know how God did it.
I don't know how God is moving in this situation,
but they're there, and they've shut the door,
and they're inside, and they filled up
all of these vessels.
The plan was explained, and I'm thankful
that the plan was executed.
There was obedience on the part of not only this woman,
but there was obedience on the part of her sons.
Here's the thing about the sons.
I'm sure that no son here has ever given their mom trouble.
Ha, ha, ha.
Right?
Sons sometimes have a way of giving mom trouble
when they won't give dad trouble in the same fashion.
I was guilty of that.
Dean's acknowledging.
Absolutely.
There were times in which I'd give mom trouble,
and she'd say, I'm going to call dad, and then all of a sudden,
just those few words changed the whole situation.
Oh, please don't call dad.
I mean, I'll do whatever you want me to do.
I just get right in line with whatever the situation is,
right?
Because I don't want dad to be called, right?
Because that was bad news.
There are times in which Joseph, he's sitting back there,
there are times in which Joseph will give Holly a hard time.
And it's almost all I got to do is say, hey.
And it's good.
It's just good.
It's amazing how it works.
These boys, as far as we can tell from the Scriptures,
they just obey what mom said.
You ever tell a boy to go clean his room?
Moms?
Go clean your room.
Well, how do I got to clean my room?
It is clean.
And then 42 seconds later, they come back.
I'm done.
You cleaned your room that fast?
Yeah.
Come on, you guys got sons, right?
I mean, you know how it works.
She'll borrow some vessels.
What?
Why?
Well, is there any question?
The plan was explained by the man of God.
And the plan was executed.
We find that here in the text of Scripture,
there was obedience on the part of this woman that
cried unto Elisha.
There was obedience on the part of the sons.
They went out and they borrowed the vessels.
They brought them in.
As mom poured, they held and set aside.
They got to see God work.
We find that in verse number 7, the problem is resolved.
I mentioned as part of the first point,
the Bible says, then she came and told the man of God.
Can you imagine?
I mean, it's just a simple statement,
but can you imagine the excitement
when she came back to Elisha?
I mean, in my mind's eye, I can only
see that this woman that came in verse number 1 crying
unto Elisha because of her problem,
that she now returns to Elisha with a level of excitement
of Elisha, Elisha, Elisha.
Guess what?
We borrowed every vessel we could find,
and we took that pot of oil, and we did just like you said,
Elisha, and every vessel is full.
And yet the oil stayed.
Now what?
Now what do we do?
She comes to Elisha.
And he says, go, sell the oil, and pay thy debt.
And then he says, and live thou and thy children of the rest.
God provided in a miraculous way for this family.
She came with a level of excitement in verse number 7.
It's quite different than her approach in verse number 1,
when she's heavy hearted over her circumstances,
over her problem.
Her problem that was revealed in verse number 1
is now resolved in verse number 7.
We find that it's all because there
was a plan that was explained and a plan that was executed.
And this evening, as we look at the problem
and the plan of 2 Kings 4, I'm mindful of a principle
that we must understand as we look here
to this Old Testament passage of Scripture
and seek to make application in our lives.
The reality is that you have problems.
I don't say that in a mean way.
We all have problems.
We have troubles.
Amen?
Your troubles, your problems differ
from what this lady experienced in 2 Kings 4.
They differ from the person sitting behind you
or in front of you.
But we have problems.
And so what is a principle that we
can glean from this portion of Scripture
that we might be able to apply in our lives this evening?
Well, I would say this, that as we look at the principle
number 1, we must determine the plan of God.
What is it that God wants us to do?
Just as this woman in her problem,
she sought the man of God.
She went to the right source.
She went to Elisha to find with her problem what
it was that she is to do.
And we find as we look at the truth of being New Testament
believers that we can run to the cross,
that we can run to our Savior, that we
can take Him our problems and our troubles
and we can leave them with Him.
And we can ask Him for wisdom and guidance and direction
for how to deal with the problems in which we encounter.
We say, God, I want to determine Your plan.
And we're seeking His face.
It's aligned with what I preached this morning.
Speak, Lord, for Thy servant here is.
I want to know, God, what Your plan is.
I want to know what You want me to do
and how You want me to operate.
Remember, as we started this evening
with the quote that is attributed to Hudson Taylor
that God's work done God's way will never lack God's supply.
Someone also said this, that many times when
we seek to engage in the work of God that we do our own work
and then we pray and ask God to bless it.
They said a far better way is for us
to determine how God wants us to do His work
and then do it and pray that God blesses.
See, there are times in which we will sit around
and we'll have discussion on what
we ought to do instead of just doing what we know
God's already told us to do.
We've not determined the plan of God,
maybe because we don't like it.
We've tried to reason through it.
We've tried to come up with some other approach
on how to handle the problems in which we're facing.
Listen, as a people we're facing problems, individuals,
families, churches, our nation.
We have so many problems.
And we must determine what the plan of God is.
In your life, in your home, in our church,
we have to determine what is God's plan.
Is God still on His throne?
Indeed.
Is He still saving sinners?
His hand is not slack.
His hand is not short.
Amen?
We believe the Word of God.
Listen, with all of the problems
I said this morning how that God will give us insight
with regard to future events as He did to Samuel
there in 1 Samuel 3, that as we look at those things
and we understand those things, we're
not to be downhearted over them.
We're not to be discouraged over them.
No, the admonition to the child of God
is to continue thou in the things which thou hast learned.
To preach the Word, to be instant in season,
out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering.
We find that our job remains to keep our eyes upon Jesus,
to remain steadfast to the plan that He's given us to do.
Determine the plan of God.
When we determine the plan of God,
we need to do what God says.
Sometimes that's the hardest part for us, is just doing.
Just doing.
There are things in our lives that we know we ought to do.
There are things in our lives that we know that would benefit
us if we would do them, right?
We were in Missouri.
How many of you have ever been to Missouri?
It's one of the hilliest places I've ever been.
Oh my word, man.
There are hills everywhere.
I mean, where we were in Branson,
there was no flat anything.
I mean, it was just hill and hill and hill.
And someone commented, Joseph, I think it was,
heard the guy say, I don't know how
anyone could be overweight in Branson.
Because they were walking through the park
that we were in.
And I mean, you're just up and down and up and down.
But the reality is that there are times in which we
know that there are some things that are good for us.
There are some things that we ought to do
that we just don't do them.
The things that I would, I do not.
Who said that?
Paul.
Yeah?
The things that I would, I do not.
The things that I would not, that I do.
Right?
And we see that there are times in which we know.
We've been able to determine the plan of God.
But the question is whether or not
we're doing what God has told us to do.
Are we actually doing it?
are we being doers of the Word
and not hearers only?
See, what a shame it would have been
in 2 Kings 4 for this woman
to come to the man of God
to reveal the problem in which she was dealing with,
to tell him to pour out her heart
crying unto the man of God
and saying, listen, my husband's dead.
We had a debt.
The creditor has come.
The two sons are going to become bondmen.
I don't know what to do.
I have nothing.
There's no way I can pay it.
And he gives her the plan.
And how sad it would be
for her to just walk away and say,
well, that's a really good idea,
but I'm going to just try something else.
I don't think we would read 2 Kings 4
1-7 the same way.
Do you?
I don't think we'd come to verse 7.
You know what I think we'd do?
If we really looked at this passage of Scripture
and dealt with it
in the way in which sometimes we behave
and I said we, I didn't say you,
I said we because I'm including myself in it,
is that we go and we seek
and we present our problem,
we seek direction,
we find out the plan,
and then we go and v. 5 would read,
so she went from him and did something else
or sought some other counsel.
And it would not read in v. 5
that we went out and did
what we were told to do.
And without v. 5 and 6,
we do not have v. 7.
In fact, in my humble opinion,
what you would find
is if we were to read this text of Scripture,
perhaps the way in which sometimes we
deal with the problems in our lives
is we determine the plan,
we're given information,
we're given a plan,
and we go and we try it some other way.
We do some other thing.
We rely on our own understanding.
And then eventually what happens
is she's going to come back
to the man of God and say,
okay, what was that that you wanted me to do?
What was that that I was supposed to do?
You understand what I'm saying, right?
And the reality is that we don't read it that way.
And we have here before us a great example
of doing what God has said for us to do.
God has set a premium on obedience.
He has set a premium on obedience.
There are times in our lives
I've said to our children at various points
in parenting, just obey.
It's so simple.
And every time, Armando, I make that statement,
the Lord smites me.
He just smites my heart.
Why?
Because it's as if the Lord says, just obey.
It's so simple.
Because I look at one of my children and I say,
I've told you exactly what it is that I want you to do.
Why is it that you can't do what I'm telling you to do?
Those of you with little kids, you understand how that works.
Our kids are older now.
It doesn't happen in the same way, at least not as often.
But the reality is that God has given us His word.
And He says to us, your job is to do it.
To do what I've commanded you to do.
I'm mindful of what is said in the book of John.
Turn over, if you will, to John chapter number two.
I'm gonna close with this.
The context is the first miracle.
Miracle in Cana.
The Lord Jesus Christ and His disciples
were called to the marriage.
The Bible tells us that His mother, Mary,
was there as well.
Without getting into the content,
the context specifically of this miracle,
I wanna take a phrase that's given to us in verse number five
and use it as a way of closing our service this evening.
The Bible says in verse number five
that His mother saith unto the servants.
Whatsoever He saith unto you, do it.
That's pretty clear, isn't it?
Do you know, if you're familiar with the content,
the context of this particular miracle,
what Jesus told them to do?
Really didn't make a whole lot of sense.
But they did it.
And the Bible ends and tells us,
this was the beginning of miracles,
but in this particular text,
and I want you to note that it says
that the servants which drew the water knew.
See, they were doing what the Lord Jesus Christ,
God in flesh, told them to do.
What great counsel that Mary gave to these servants.
Whatsoever He saith unto you, do it.
For us, as the people of God in 2021,
we need to take that same counsel.
Say, whatsoever He saith unto you, do it.
Say, yeah, yeah, but it doesn't work anymore.
Says who?
If it wasn't gonna work anymore,
God would've given us an updated Bible.
Amen?
God would've said, these things are gonna work
in these particular eras,
and then when you get to this era,
then start doing this, and then change and do this.
No, this is God's work.
And we must do God's work God's way.
Amen?
Pragmatism is not the plan that we seek to embrace
or to implement.
No, we desire to know what is God's plan.
I'm thankful for this portion of scripture
in 2 Kings 4.
I know it's a familiar passage,
but I hope tonight that you've been encouraged
by seeing how God is able to work the provision of the Lord.
I don't know what your problem is.
You don't know what all my problems are.
And it's not necessary for us to have a session
in which we all share our problems with each other
and feel bad for each other.
No, no.
Seek God.
Take it to the Lord, casting all your cares upon him.
Why?
For he careth for you.
Aren't you thankful that he cares about you?
You know that he knows what your problem is?
You say, I don't wanna tell anybody my problem.
He already knows what your problem is, right?
He already knows.
So what are you embarrassed about?
What are you ashamed of?
Just pour your heart out to God.
How many times do we see in the Psalms
where the psalmist is transparent with the Lord?
Help, Lord.
I don't know what to do.
You ever feel that way?
Sometimes when I pray, I just say, God, I'm stupid.
I know we're not supposed to say that word for little kids.
I'm sorry, forgive me.
But I truly, I say, God, I just don't know what to do.
Are you ever there in your life?
I don't know what to do.
But God, I know that you're the omniscient God.
And I know that you have a plan and you have a purpose.
And God, I desire to hear,
to do your work, your plan.
The provision of the Lord.
Listen, he's never failed and he's not gonna begin failing.
Amen?
The provision of the Lord.
God's work done God's way will never lack God's supply.
Let's pray together.
Father, we love you.
We thank you for loving us.
Thank you for this Old Testament account.
Familiar passage of scripture.
But oh, how your word is a living book.
Ministers to our hearts.
Helps us in our time of need.
I pray that somehow, someway tonight,
you've used your word to help someone.
I know that we have problems.
We know that you have a plan.
I pray that you would help us to determine
what your plan is and then to do it.
We think about those words of Mary,
whatsoever he saith unto you, do it.
Help us, God, to do,
to fulfill the work, the plan that you've given us to do.
Would you move and work as only you can.
We give you the honor and glory for it.
In Christ's name we pray.
Would you stand with us?